Adds 3D platformer tutorial. (#454)
hpx7/rtag: docs/buildkit/tutorial_3d_platformer.md

# Tutorial: 3D Platformer

> In today's tutorial we're going to develop a 3D platformer game which can be played in your web browser. This game will leverage the Hathora `BuildKit` client and server libraries to facilitate multiplayer functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we're going to develop a 3D platformer game which can be played in your web browser. This game will leverage the Hathora `BuildKit` client and server libraries to facilitate multiplayer functionality.
```

Note that this tutorial is aimed at developers who may not have experience with Hathora, TypeScript, or even multiplayer game development in general. If you're a more advanced developer, feel free to skip sections so long as you feel confident in your understanding of what's going on.

## Repo

The source code of the 3D platformer can be located [here](https://github.com/hathora/3d-platformer). The repo's README file will guide you through running the game on your local machine, and there is an existing build of the game deployed to the web which can be sampled [here](https://3d-platformer.netlify.app/).

Upon completion of this tutorial, your game will look like this:

> ![A screenshot of the completed 3D platformer demo game, running fullscreen in the browser.](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7004280/213311928-18d0ed21-d309-4a30-8c7c-36cf0655d0f5.png)

Reviewer: can this screenshot include another player to indicate that it's multiplayer?

Author: Updated to include 2 additional players in the viewport, from a similar angle.

Once the tool finishes building your project's file/folder structure, it will install all necessary dependencies via `npm`. Once the command completes, `cd` into the newly created project folder, then open a second CLI tab in the same folder.

Run the following in the first tab:

```bash
npm run server
```

And in the second tab, run:

```bash
npm run client
```

With both commands running simultaneously, open a window using your preferred web browser (I'll be using Google Chrome), and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`. If all is well, you should be greeted with the following page:

![A webpage client generated by npm init hathora-buildkit, indicating that our project was successfully bootstrapped.](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7004280/213313891-86709999-868c-4fc2-a0e7-f99d834797de.png)

A moment or so after loading the page, the "Message from server:" box should flash green and display "Hello Hathora!"

If you see this message, congrats! You've successfully established a client-server connection!

## Common files

> It is a common practice when building games with Hathora BuildKit to create a `common` folder in the root of your project. This folder typically contains any and all files which are used within both the game's client and server code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a common practice when building games with Hathora BuildKit to create a `common` folder in the root of your project. This folder typically contains any and all files which are shared bween both the game's client and server code.
```

    z: 1,
    w: 4,
    h: 1,
    d: 4
  },
  {
    x: 3,
    y: 7,
    z: -5,
    w: 4,
    h: 1,
    d: 4
  },
  {
    x: -3,
    y: 8,
    z: -5,
    w: 4,
    h: 1,
    d: 4
  },
  {
    x: -3,
    y: 9,
    z: 1,
    w: 4,
    h: 1,
    d: 4
  },
  {
    x: -3,
    y: 10,
    z: 7,
    w: 4,
    h: 1,
    d: 4
  }
];
```

This file exports an array of objects which will represent the brick pillars and platforms in our game's world. Each object has an `x`, `y`, and `z` coordinate to represent it's position in 3D space, alongside a `w` (width), `h` (height), and `d` (depth) property to represent it's size.

Note that the map's ground (grass-textured object shown in the screenshot previously) is *not* included in this array.

## Server dependencies

For the specific game we're building today, we will need a few additional dependencies for our server's code to work with. These dependencies are:

- [enable3d](https://www.npmjs.com/package/enable3d): The 3D framework we're using (which can be run in a headless mode, aka without a visual representation)
- [@enable3d/ammo-on-nodejs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@enable3d/ammo-on-nodejs): The 3D physics engine utilized by enable3d

> - [hash.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hash.js): A collection of hash functions in pure JavaScript (but *with* TypeScript bindings)

Reviewer: no longer used

```json
{
  "type": "module",
  "dependencies": {
    "@enable3d/ammo-on-nodejs": "^0.25.3",
    "@hathora/server-sdk": "^0.5.1",
    "dotenv": "^16.0.3",
    "enable3d": "^0.25.3",
    "hash.js": "^1.1.7"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/node": "^18.11.9"
  }
}
```

## Server code

This section will delve into the game's server code, all of which should be contained within the `server/server.ts` file from within our project's root. Open this file within your code editor, delete all the code currently residing in it, and we will begin composing the 3D platformer's custom server code!

### Imports and constant configuration

The first chunk of code we'll add will import everything required by our server, and specify configuration variables as constants. After finishing the rest of this tutorial, feel free to come back and mess around with these variables and observe the results!

```ts
// @ts-ignore
import _ammo from '@enable3d/ammo-on-nodejs/ammo/ammo.js';
import Enable3D from '@enable3d/ammo-on-nodejs';
import { register, Store, UserId, RoomId } from "@hathora/server-sdk";
import dotenv from "dotenv";

> import hash from "hash.js";

Reviewer: no longer used

// A type which defines the properties of a player used internally on the server (not sent to client)
type InternalPlayer = {
  id: UserId;
  body: Enable3D.ExtendedObject3D;
  direction: Direction;
  theta: number;
  grounded: boolean;
  animation: string;
};

// A type which represents the internal state of the server, containing:
//   - physics: our "physics" engine (detect-collisions library)
//   - players: an array containing all connected players to a room
type InternalState = {
  physics: Enable3D.Physics;
  platforms: Enable3D.ExtendedObject3D[];
  players: InternalPlayer[];
};

// A map which the server uses to contain all room's InternalState instances
const rooms: Map<RoomId, InternalState> = new Map();
```

### The server store

Now let's append our server's `store` object. The `store` contains specific functionality consumed by Hathora BuildKit and contains much of our game's core logic.

```ts
// ...
// Create an object to represent our Store
const store: Store = {
  // newState is called when a user requests a new room, this is a good place to handle any world initialization
  newState(roomId: bigint, userId: string): void {
    // const clock = new ServerClock();

>     // clock.onTick(delta => this.update(delta));

Reviewer: should these be removed?

  appSecret: process.env.APP_SECRET,
  authInfo: { anonymous: { separator: "-" } },
  store,
});

const { host, storeId } = coordinator;
console.log(`Connected to coordinator at ${host} with storeId ${storeId}`);

_ammo().then((ammo: any) => {
  globalThis.Ammo = ammo;

  const clock = new ServerClock();

  clock.onTick(delta => {
    rooms.forEach((room, roomId) => {
      // Tick each room
      updateRoom(room, delta);

      // Send the state updates to each client connected to that room
      broadcastStateUpdate(roomId);
    });
  });
});

function updateRoom(room: InternalState, delta: number) {
  // Move each player with a direction set and apply gravity
  room.players.forEach((player) => {
    player.body.body.transform();

    // Forward / backward movement
    const {theta} = player;
    const x = Math.sin(theta + (RADIANS_45 * player.direction.x)) * PLAYER_MOVE_SPEED * player.direction.z * delta;
    // const x = PLAYER_MOVE_SPEED * player.direction.z * delta;
    // const x = player.body.body.velocity.x;
    const y = player.body.body.velocity.y;
    const z = Math.cos(theta + (RADIANS_45 * player.direction.x)) * PLAYER_MOVE_SPEED * player.direction.z * delta;

>     // const z = PLAYER_MOVE_SPEED * player.direction.z * delta;

Reviewer: remove commented out lines

  subscribers.forEach((userId) => {
    const msg: ServerMessage = {
      type: ServerMessageType.StateUpdate,
      state,
      ts: now,
    };
    coordinator.sendMessage(roomId, userId, Buffer.from(JSON.stringify(msg), "utf8"));
  });
}
```

With that code appended, our `server.ts` file is complete. Congrats! You are officially halfway through building a multiplayer 3D platformer! The next section will walk you through the process of building this game's client, responsible for rendering logic and sending user input to the server.

## Client dependencies

As with this game's server code, some additional dependencies are required by our game's client in order for our code to function.

The clientside dependencies we will be consuming are:

- [enable3d](https://www.npmjs.com/package/enable3d): The same 3D framework we're using on the server, but we will use it here for visuals.
- [three](https://www.npmjs.com/package/three): A popular 3D JavaScript library which we will integrate with `enable3d`.
- [interpolation-buffer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/interpolation-buffer): A utility for implementing linear interpolation into our game's client.

> - [hash.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hash.js): The same collection of hashing functions we installed on our server.

Reviewer: is this used?
